---
layout: post
title: Change paths. It's exciting!
date: '2015-02-03T14:10:00-06:00'
tags:
- juntostudio exploration food development
tumblr_url: http://juntostudio.tumblr.com/post/109994713561/change-paths-its-exciting
---
By Daniela Guzman (guest writer)  School. Graduation. University. Job. These words sound so normal to most people. They are what´s expected of us. It´s supposedly the process everyone has to go through to be a successful person. But what happens if this is not working for you?Traditional education has the tendency to make you think that when you graduate from high school, you´ll be able to choose a path that will take directly where you want to go. It is expected that by the time we turn eighteen we´ll be ready to decide if we want to become engineers, architects, lawyers or doctors. We have to make this decision and it feels so serious, so definitive. It feels like the decision is final and to deviate from whichever path we choose is unthinkable. For some reason, we imagine this path to be linear, continuous and one-way. Once we choose what we want to become, we have to study for a few years so we can have a degree and start working and putting into practice what we learned. We have to continue on the path. This was my case a year ago. I studied Political Science and had every intention to graduate and work in that field. Once I graduated and got my degree, I tried working in a few places but it didn´t feel right. The job offers were really limited and none of them worked for me. It was really frustrating. Somehow, I felt cheated. Why was I not able to find a job that I liked so could continue on my path? Everyone else made it look so easy, but it wasn´t. Simultaneously, I started cooking. Because I was so frustrated, it became my escape and my therapy. I fell in love with it and suddenly I found myself watching The Cooking Channel of The Food Network instead of the news. I read recipes instead of the newspaper. I was deviating from my path, or maybe I was creating a new one.I decided to follow my curiosity and go to cooking school. Honestly, at first I felt disappointed in myself for “abandoning” Political Science. I thought about what my family, friends and professors would think. I felt like a failure. Why was I feeling like this? Traditional education and society could consider it a failure or a mistake. But to change paths is not to fail. If you feel like your path no longer works for you, create a new one!Contact: danielagmatheu@gmail.comPhoto credits: Creative live
