---
layout:     post
title:      The journey to the first blog post
date:       2017-06-08
summary:    Here it is, my first post.
---

Oh, my isn't that exciting 🎉. I made myself a Jekyll blog. In the eyes of any coding ~~designer~~ person this is as easy as pie, but for me, it's a milestone for 2017. Let me explain -
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I'm 21 years old guy, born, raised and based in Sofia, Bulgaria.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At the age of 14, my journey in the creative fields began.
My amazing parents sent my butt to a  private vocational school about multimedia, graphic design and animation. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I was introduced to "Poster Design" at the age of 16 and I got hooked up. I started reading books about graphic design like "Thinking with Type", "Grid Systems in Graphic Design", "Complete Graphic Design" and many more. It's funny, thinking that five years ago I thought that learning how to be a proper graphic designer was in a matter of months. At the age of 17, I started my *" freelancing career"*. By that, I mean that I was creating flyers and posters for everything, mainly in websites like freelancer.com and oDesk. It was weird that I even landed any projects.  They were beyond unacceptable since I had no idea what was I doing. On the other side, I wasn't getting paid a lot as well - around $3-5 a poster. Yeah, well everybody starts from somewhere. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Fast forward two years after that. I graduated school and I went to study graphic design in "New Bulgarian University". To be frank, back then I used to value Graphic design and Illustration more than anything. In general I was really *visual*. I was really interested in arts, I was attending painting classes and from time to time I used to travel to see famous works from great authors. Probably you're asking yourself why am I writing this? Well, everything is going to make sense in a bit. 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The truth is this - I used to **dislike**, **disrespect** and to **devalue** everything related to web design. In my eyes that was not "*artistic*" enough, that it was "*nerdy*" (I'm still cringing from what I used to generate in my head, honestly), that it had *nothing creative* in it, therefore it is not worthy for me. (Can you believe it. Ah, I'll write a blog post about my views about ego in junior and undergrad designers.) 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Everything changed when I met one of the closest friends of mine (back then, through my eyes, overly-motivated douche, that thought he's better than the others - and in my eyes that was me ((I know what you're thinking and you're right - I was a douchebag myself. ))
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;So with time, my friend and I got closer and we started working together. What I mean by working was taking our laptops (I was working on my old mom's Lenovo T400) and going for two-three day sleepovers, grinding 99design contests all day-all night. Trust me, it was extremely idiotic. The thing I regret is the lack of any healthiness in this process. It was ridiculous. We used to drink ton-load of energy drinks, eat a lot of fast-carbs and basically force each other to stay awake and work. Absolutely ridiculous. One of my strongest beliefs is that you can skip anything, but sleep. And I'm happy that for now I'm keeping strict 7:30-8hrs of sleep a night. By the way check out this article [here.](https://www.sciencealert.com/the-brain-literally-starts-eating-itself-when-it-doesn-t-get-enough-sleep)
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If you're still following along, my buddy was into web design for a long time. Back then both of us were 19 years old and he was doing web design for almost 6 years. He was (and still is pretty dedicated dude, but damn.) really into it. One day he reached out with an offer - "We have to design the UI of an antivirus app. I don't have the time so you could help me out."
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At the time I had no client work at all, being hella broke, working on a Lenovo T400 with 256mb's of RAM, I thought "It's not going to hurt and I can earn some cash from it." Was I wrong or what. I earned around 50 leva (that would be around $30), almost got in a physical fight with my friend and a cold serving of 24 hours no-sleep. And from there it all started.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Right now, June 10th, as I'm writing this post, I'm trying to finish a huge project related to CAN technologies, set a visual style for a mobile app with Diana (she's my partner in creme) and develop a design system for a company based in Germany. I'm feeling more self-aware, since I can acknowledge that I'm a junior UX designer, with a bit of experience in building visual UI. I've set my goals. Product design, here I come.