---
author: dandl
comments: true
date: 2017-06-13 04:55:40+00:00
layout: post
link: http://doingandlearning.com/20-questions/
slug: 20-questions
title: '20 Questions: Tracking how your kids grow'
wordpress_id: 393
categories:
- Questioning
---

I love the game 20 questions - one person thinks of an object, person or thing and then the other asks questions to work out what it is.

I also love tracking things - particularly my boys as they grow.  We have the marks on a piece of wood where we track their heights as time passes.  Every year, our photos get curated and we send off for a printed photobook to help us appreciate the year that has passed, the people and experiences that have made it up.  But, I am a bit worried we might forget about some of the funny things they think as they grow.

Recently, I saw somewhere on social media an idea to ask questions each year and to track these - I love it!  Here are my 20 questions with answers from my boys.  My boys are currently 2 and 4 so your questions may be different.  Which would you change and which would you keep?





**Son1: **Age 4 - very cooperative :)
**Son2: **Age 2 - struggled to answer any questions!

**1. What is your favourite colour?**
Son1: Green
Son2: Blue - everything blue.

**2. What is your favourite toy?**
Son1: Trains
Son2:

**3. What is your favourite fruit?**
Son1: Apple, as long as they don't have bruises on.
Son2: Banana

**4. What is your favourite TV show?**
Son1: Zingzillas
Son2: Stickman

**5. What is your favourite thing to eat for lunch?**
Son1: Chorizo wrap
Son2:

**6. What is your favourite thing to wear?**
Son1: Shorts
Son2:

**7. What is your favourite game?**
Son1: I don't know.
Son2:

**8. What is your favourite snack?**
Son1: Cereal bars - a whole pile of them!
Son2:

**9. What is your favourite animal?**
Son1: That's tricky to understand .... elephants!
Son2:

**10. What is your favourite song?**
Son1: The big sing from Zingzillas - the banana car one.
Son2:

**11. What is your favourite book?**
Son1: Book with no pictures
Son2:

**12. Where is your favourite place?**
Son1: Belfast Zoo
Son2:

**13. What is your favourite thing to do outside?**
Son1: Go to the park and fly my kite on a very windy day.
Son2:

**14. What is your favourite thing to have for breakfast?**
Son1: Marmite and toast
Son2:

**15. What is your favourite thing to have for dinner?**
Son1: Sausage pasta
Son2:

**16. What is your favourite drink?**
Son1: Orange juice
Son2:

**17. What is your favourite holiday?**
Son1: London
Son2:

**18. What do you like to take to bed with you at night?**
Son1: All of your teddies
Son2:

**19. What is your favourite teddy?**
Son1: Charlie Bear
Son2:

**20. What do you want to be when you grow up?**
Son1: Fireman, policeman, coast guard, bird watcher, lifeboat worker, builder, architect - but I'm going to start off with the police man.
Son2:


