---
layout: post
title: Books I read in 2020
date: 2020-12-27 14:20:42 -0800
categories: books 2020 programming technical
---

These are the three technical books I read in 2020.
- Functional Programming in C#
- Architecture Patterns with Python
- Growing object oriented software guided by tests

## Functional Programming in C\#
I've been coidng in C# at my current job. I like it so far.
* Static typing
* Linq
The book introduces some of the best functional programming concepts in C#.

## Architecture Patterns with Python
I haven't been writing Python code that much lately. However, I have worked on large Python code bases in my previous jobs, how they can become hard to maintain very quickly.
Pythonistas also tend to be apprehensive towards big design up front. In fact they tend to frown upon attempts to do any sort of design in the name of saying "We don't do Java in Python". They tend to be afraid of big design up front, some of that has good merits. They have the 'Just do it and get stuff done' attitude. Although that attitude serves well in many projects particualy at the start of the project I have seen some projects accumulate the incidental complexity over time and end up unmaintainable. This book actually introduces Python world with some of the architectural patterns to help avoid those situations in large code bases.

A few years ago, I have read TDD in Python book written by the same author, and that had served me well with doing TDD in Django settings, several techniques with writing Python unit tests particularly around using mock library. When this new book came out I had to read it. Even though the online version of the book is freely available online, I purchased the book from the publisher's website to help support the authors. 

As the book title suggests the patterns are architural patterns and not to be confused with GoF patterns. Here are a few of the patterns the books talked about: Unit of work pattern, Event driven architecture pattern, CQRS, Strangler fig pattern.
The best parts about the book: at the end of the chapters: Pros and Cons.

## Growing object oriented software guided by tests
First heard about the book on Ruby Rogues podcast where they had the book club.
Also at my current job I do a lot of test automation.
The book has capters on testing and some adivce which I think were some of the best.
